                                                   # SQL-Case-Studies--Retail-Data-Analysis


 ***---------------------------------------------Data Prepration & Understanding----------------------------------------------------***
# Q-1- What is the total number of rows in each of the 3 tables in the database?
# Q-2- What is the total no of transactions that have a return?
# Q-3- As you would have noticed, the dates provided across the datasets are not in a correct format. As first step is to convert the date variable into a valid date formats before proceeding ahead. 
# Q-4- What is the time range of the transactions of data available for analysis? Show the output in number of days, month and years simultaneously in different columns.
# Q-5- Which Product Category does the sub-Category "DIY" belong to?


***----------------------------------------------------Data Analysis----------------------------------------------------------------***

# Q-1- Which Channel is Most frequent used for the transactions?
# Q-2- What is the count of male and female customers in the database?
# Q-3- FROM Which city do we have the maximum number of customers and how many?
# Q-4- How many sub_category are there under the Books Category
# Q-5- What is maximum quantity of products ever ordered?
# Q-6- What is the net total revenue generated in categories Electronics and Books?
# Q-7- How many customer have>10 transactions with us, excluding return?
# Q-8- What is the combined revenue earned from the "Electronics" & "Clothing" categories, from "Flagship stores"?
# Q-9-What is the total revenue generated from "Male" customers in  "Electronics" category? Output Should display total revenue by prod sub_cat.
# Q-10- What is percentage of sales and returns by product sub category; display only top 5 sub categories in terms of sales?
# Q-11- For all customers aged between 25 to 35 years find what is the net total revenue generated by these consumers by these  consumers in last 30 days of transactions from max transaction date available in the data? 

# Q-12- Which product category has been the max value of returns in the last 3 months of transactions?
# Q-13- Which store-type sells the maximum products; by value of sales amount and by quantity sold?
# Q-14- What are the category for which average revenue is above the overall average?
# Q-15- Find the average and total revenue by each subcatrgory for the categories which are among top 5 category in terms of  quantity sold? 

